---
title: "ET-MIP: Predicting fate and transport of CO2 in overburden at the field scale."
collection: talks
type: "Conference Presentation"
permalink: /talks/2023-06-22-SIAMGS23
venue: "SIAM Conference on Mathematical & Computational Issues in the Geosciences (GS23)"
date: 2023-06-22
location: "Bergen, Norway"
---

**Astract:**
> Carbon capture and storage has emerged as a principal emissions reduction technology for the energy transition. Its effectiveness hinges largely on the security of the storage reservoir, which may be susceptible to leakage through permeable pathways such as abandoned wells and faults. Our understanding of the fate of CO<sub>2</sub> in overburden remains limited, hindering the detection and assessment of leaks. There is a need for numerical models capable of accurately predicting the fate and transport of CO<sub>2</sub> in the subsurface. However, continuum multiphase flow models struggle to describe the unstable gas flow regime expected at leak sites. ET-MIP (Electro-thermal macroscopic invasion percolation) couples continuum-based electrical, thermal, groundwater and chemical species modules with a discrete macroscopic invasion percolation gas flow module. It has been validated against bench scale experiments and shown to accurately predict gas behaviour, multiphase transport and capillary trapping – all mechanisms which govern the fate of CO<sub>2</sub> in overburden. For application at large-scale field sites however, upscaling techniques will need to be applied to maintain both computational efficiency and predictive capabilities, such that simulation results can inform CO<sub>2</sub> migration mitigation. This talk will first present validation of ET-MIP against a bench-scale CO<sub>2</sub> injection, then outline the upscaling methods applied to ET-MIP to move from a 2-D lab-scale simulations to 3-D field scale.
